# Software_Design_Template
I worked as a junior software developer at Creative Technology Solutions and my manager ask me to work with The Gaming Room to assist with meeting their technology requirements. They wanted a web-based game that serves multiple platforms based on their Android application Draw It or Lose It.
The Draw It or Lose It application has the ability to have multiple instances of the running at once. The client did not want duplicate instances of the game at the point of saving. I recommended that the Draw It or Lose It application implement a singleton class to ensure that only one instance of the Game Service class exists in memory at any time. The code implements an iterator pattern for when a user starts a new game to play, the application checks every instance of the game already in play. Similarly, an iterator pattern was used to check for unique players and teams.
The Software Design Document helped me retain the vision for The Gaming Room’s application. I was able to summarize the clients needs, research the design constraints, evaluate different operations platform, determine the cost for dedicated servers, identify security strategies, and make a recommendation. I would like to revise the compare and contrast of the operating systems to include personnel, depth of programmers relative to a specific platform, and the process of setting up a dedicated server. I was able to interpret the user’s needs by creating user story and organizing the product backlog.
I approached the software design by implementing the Agile/Scrum software development methodology. The product owner had a meeting with the client and created user stories. Then a meeting was held between the product owner, Scrum Master, development team, and tester. We determined what user stories would be taken into the Sprint. Subsequently, we had daily stand-ups, sprint reviews, and sprint retrospectives. In conclusion, the application met the clients needs and put them closer to deploying an application in a distributed environment.
